+++
title = "Evaluation complexity for nonlinear constrained optimization using unscaled KKT conditions and high-order models"
date = 2016-04-12T00:00:00-03:00

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = []

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference paper
# 2 = Journal article
# 3 = Manuscript
# 4 = Report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book section
publication_types = ["2"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "SIAM Journal on Optimization"
publication_short = "SIOPT"

# Abstract.
abstract = "The evaluation complexity of general nonlinear, possibly nonconvex, constrained optimization is analyzed. It is shown that, under suitable smoothness conditions, an $\\epsilon$-approximate first-order critical point of the problem can be computed in order $O(\\epsilon^{1-2(p+1)/p})$ evaluations of the problem's function and their first $p$ derivatives. This is achieved by using a two-phases algorithm inspired by Cartis, Gould, and Toint. It is also shown that strong guarantees (in terms of handling degeneracies) on the possible limit points of the sequence of iterates generated by this algorithm can be obtained at the cost of increased complexity. At variance with previous results, the $\\epsilon$-approximate first-order criticality is defined by satisfying a version of the KKT conditions with an accuracy that does not depend on the size of the Lagrange multipliers."

# Summary. An optional shortened abstract.
summary = ""

# Digital Object Identifier (DOI)
doi = "10.1137/15M1031631"

# Is this a featured publication? (true/false)
featured = false

# Tags (optional).
#   Set `tags = []` for no tags, or use the form `tags = ["A Tag", "Another Tag"]` for one or more tags.
tags = ["E. G. Birgin", "admin", "J. M. Martínez", "S. A. Santos", "Ph. L. Toint"]

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter your project's folder or file name without extension.
#   E.g. `projects = ["deep-learning"]` references 
#   `content/project/deep-learning/index.md`.
#   Otherwise, set `projects = []`.
projects = []

# Slides (optional).
#   Associate this page with Markdown slides.
#   Simply enter your slide deck's filename without extension.
#   E.g. `slides = "example-slides"` references 
#   `content/slides/example-slides.md`.
#   Otherwise, set `slides = ""`.
slides = ""

# Links (optional).
url_pdf = ""
url_preprint = ""
url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
url_poster = ""
url_source = ""

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
# links = [{name = "Custom Link", url = "http://example.org"}]

# Featured image
# To use, add an image named `featured.jpg/png` to your page's folder. 
[image]
  # Caption (optional)
  caption = ""

  # Focal point (optional)
  # Options: Smart, Center, TopLeft, Top, TopRight, Left, Right, BottomLeft, Bottom, BottomRight
  focal_point = ""
+++
